# Final Project Problem Statement
---
With my final project, I aim to answer the question of: is the beer I am about to drink going to be good? With the rising popularity of small craft and micro breweries, it is often difficult to assess the estimated quality of a beer prior to actually purchasing and trying the beer.   With so many different and unique beers on the market (and the lists of available options changing constantly), it is almost impossible to develop a manual approach to predicitng beer quality.  I aim to use various quantitative and qualitative features of different beers to attempt to "score" potential beers.  I anticipate using the data from [Craftcans.com](https://www.craftcans.com) in conjunction with the [Ratebeers.com API](https://www.ratebeer.com/api.asp) in order to train a model that can predict beer quality.

One of the challenges at hand is taking into account the various categorical features of the various beers that are likely important, but potentially difficult to incorporate in a model.  For example, how should one deal with the style of beer?  Year after year, the popularity of beer styles changes, and it is quite possible that the user-submitted ratings (which feed Ratebeers.com's Bayesian scoring algorithm) are skewed towards more trendy and popular styles.  As this changes with time, it is important to be able to (1) account for this categorical variable and (2) understand the bias that temporality may introduce into the model training process.

Additionally, with only ~2700 beers listed on craftcans.com, the potential size of the training set is of slight concern.  Coupled with the fact that this dataset will likely shrink once merged with the Ratebeer.com ratings, I will likely have to employe some clever cross-validation techniques in order to produce adequate training/test splits in the data.
